= Slugger

Slugger is yet another slug generator.  It makes pretty urls for Active Record models.  Why would the ruby (on rails) community need another slug generating plugin you ask?  It doesn't, but I needed one that would jump through some hoops to make sure slugs are unique without setting errors.

== Installation

It's a gem. Either run `gem install slugger` at the command line, or add `gem 'slugger'` to your Gemfile.

== Usage

  has_slug :source_column, [options_hash]

The default source column is title and slug column is, well slug.  The following two settings are the same:

  has_slug
  has_slug :title, :slug_column => 'slug'

:source_column can also be an array, for example, if you wanted to create slugs for an Author model on first and last name:

  class Author << ActiveRecord::Base
    has_slug [:first_name, :last_name]
  end

To be sure that the slug will never have a validation error:

  class Post << ActiveRecord::Base
    has_slug :title, :on_conflict => :concat_random_chars
  end

Say you have an Episode model that belongs to TVSeries.  Every episode will have a pilot, but you don't want the unique validation to build silly looking urls: (this doesn't actually work), patches welcome

  class Episode << ActiveRecord::Base
    belongs_to :series
    
    has_slug :title, :scope => :series_id
  end

== Example

  create_table "collections" do |t|
    t.string   "title"
    t.string   "slug"
  end
  add_index(:collections, :slug)

  class Collection < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_slug
  end

  Collection.create(:title => 'Quick foxes jumping')
  Collection.first.slug => 'quick-foxes-jumping'

